hey guys if you've been watching horror
movies for a while now
you've probably heard of the paranormal
activity series
not only is the franchise insanely
profitable but it's also very intriguing
the story spans multiple decades and
follows sisters christy and katie as
they deal with a demon who will stop at
nothing until it gets what it wants
and there's some pretty crazy stuff
happening throughout the films
there's time travel a lot of little
details that are mentioned in one film
that show up two movies later
and on top of that we're constantly
jumping back and forth on the timeline
so in this video we'll take a look at
the movies and find out what is really
going on
now i'm not going to go through the
timeline in chronological order but
rather in the order that you would
actually watch the movies
that's because the story is so much
better when you arrive at its
mind-bending revelations naturally
so let's start with the first movie that
was released all the way back in 2007.
it takes place in 2006 and we follow the
young couple katie and mika who recently
moved into a new house in san diego
mika recently bought a camera to
document some of the weird occurrences
the couple have been experiencing
and then when any weird [ __ ] goes on
we will be in a perfect position to
capture it
especially since katie told him that she
always had this overwhelming fear that
something was haunting her
they set up the camera at the foot of
their bed to see if anything could be
captured
and the first night footsteps are heard
which almost sounds like someone running
around the house
even though they're the only ones there
soon after she calls a psychic to get
some advice on how to deal with a
supernatural entity
mika is not all convinced and instead of
supporting his scared wife he chooses to
make fun of her
[Music]
well obviously this is incontrovertible
evidence that evil forces came from
beyond the grave
to move your keys the psychic arrives
and talks with katie to get more
information she tells him that all the
strange occurrences started when she and
her sister were both young kids
though she was affected more than her
sister my younger sister kristi she was
five
and at that time we both you know
experienced
whatever it was their previous
experiences abruptly stopped after a
mysterious fire broke out at their
childhood home
the cause of which was unknown after
that the two girls had smaller incidents
that would come and go on waves as they
grew older the psychic gets the
impression that they're dealing with a
demon that
wants katie and is following her but
what about all right
check this out what if we just get the
speech board right we find out what it
wants and then we just give what it
wants and then
gone because what it probably wants is
katie
since his expertise lies more with
ghosts not demons
he recommends that they call a
demonologist called dr johann averys he
also warns them to stop
communicating with the evil or do
anything that might provoke it
that means no cameras and no ouija
boards
so figure go out and get a ouija board
after several more nights and more
unexplained events such as doors moving
and lights flickering
mika wants to talk to it with a ouija
board yeah all right you little [ __ ]
got something to say now's your chance
this doesn't go down well with the
demonic force causing the haunting to
grow even more intense
but mika continues to take it lightly
and is more concerned about the awesome
footage he's capturing
one night they get the idea to leave
baby powder on the floor in the hopes to
capture the invisible footsteps they
keep hearing the next morning they do
find prince in the powder but it's clear
they're not human
there's no footsteps out oh god they
look around the house and they appear
all over the floor leading to the attic
following the tracks mika finds a burn
photo of a child who katie reveals to be
her when she was younger
although she has no idea how it got up
there
found this up there this is our old
house
what in the hell is this doing in the
attic keep in mind they just moved here
their situation gets even worse when the
demon bangs on doors and claws at
pictures of mika
they try to call the demonologist but
can't reach him as he's out of the
country
forcing them to call the psychic back to
their home as he walks through the door
he instantly senses the strong sense of
evil within the house
this is this is overpowering it's
getting worse yes it certainly doesn't
like that i'm here and i cannot help you
what in fact i've got to get out of here
this thing is very aggravated the fact
that i'm here
katie pleads for his help but he tries
to get out of there as fast as he can
telling them that they must get dr
avery's to the house soon
on night 19 we get our first look at
what this thing looks like
the couple is sleeping in their bed when
the sound of unusual footsteps are heard
close by
it's when we think the demon has left
the room that a shadow appears across
the door
what's great about this is the fact that
it didn't rely on a loud noise to make
us jump instead it was a really subtle
and intriguing moment
anyways katie can feel that whatever's
in their house is coming closer to her
night after night but she simply doesn't
know what to do
finally mika gets more serious and
researches what could be happening
this leads him to find the story of a
girl that experienced the exact same
things as katie
yeah she has all the same things happen
to her in the 60s this happened to you
what do you mean everything like eight
years old and like
like house burning down and like seeing
shadows and whatever
since that girl had the help of a
demonologist and it clearly didn't end
that well for her
they decide that calling dr avery's
might not be a good idea
that night the demon drags katie across
the floor and bites her which causes a
weird shift in her attitude as she all
of a sudden becomes less scared
jesus then when mika suggests that they
go to a hotel
or anywhere with more witnesses she
surprisingly turns it down
and says that they should stay she's
clearly no longer herself
and possessed by the demon
i think we'll be okay now on the 21st
night which is october 8th
katie wakes up and stares at mika
sleeping for 45 minutes
then she goes downstairs and lets out a
really freakish scream
mika runs down and also starts screaming
in pain before everything goes eerily
quiet
after hearing heavy footsteps coming
back up the stairs
mika's body is thrown at the camera
knocking it over
the possessed katie then crawls over to
the camera grins and then jumps at it
of course this left many unanswered
questions like how did a childhood
picture of katie get into the attic of
their new home
and why does the demon possess katie in
the first place well for that we'll get
into paranormal activity too
this one takes place two months before
the events of the first film
so also in 2006.
in my opinion it's probably the worst
entry in the series because we're no
longer following the events in first
person
but instead from security cameras which
just isn't that scary
here we follow the rey family the mother
christie has recently given birth to
hunter their newborn son
from this point the whole family is
introduced in a home video
and after a few minutes a familiar face
is at the door
katie who is christy's sister also gets
to hold hunter saying that she doesn't
want to let him go
the next day they wake up only to find
their house completely trashed like
someone broke in last night that's what
she's telling me
just make sure we document everything
don't touch anything
this is our foyer the furniture's
damaged but nothing was stolen
except for personal items that have no
real value they decide to get a couple
of security cameras to make sure that
the next time something like this
happens they know who did it
the first couple of nights things are
pretty quiet but shortly after
weird noises and footsteps are heard oh
apparently we have a ghost
you hear about this i did not please
elaborate because that's a very
strange thing to uh a couple pots fell
off our uh pot hanger
no you definitely have a ghost even
though this sounds familiar this time
it's not near the parents but around
little hunter
then one night their maid is alone with
him but eventually they also start
hearing strange noises
she quickly starts burning incense to
cleanse the room of evil this however
results in her being fired as the rey
family doesn't really agree with her
views on the supernatural
i think it's a little odd to fire
someone because they believe in spectres
and goblins but that's what they do
christy quickly gets the feeling that
something is off mainly because she and
katie had shared strange experiences in
the past
things get progressively worse and
christy becomes increasingly scared when
katie visits again she advises her to
simply ignore it
saying that if she doesn't she's going
to end up like their mother whatever it
was
it thrived on fear the more we paid
attention to it the worse it got
you need to leave this alone you need to
ignore it but you're going to end up
just like mom do you understand me
but ignoring it doesn't work as it
slowly but surely becomes impossible
not to notice when their daughter ali
starts researching what could be
happening to her family
she notices that hunter is the first boy
born on christy's side of the family in
a long time
she also reads that some people make
deals with demons for the soul of their
firstborn son
this makes her think that whatever is
going on might be happening for a reason
no but listen to me that other website
said that said that some people
like make deals with demons for wealth
and power
so what if christy's grandmother made a
deal with a demon so she could get rich
i went through the entire family line
and hunter is
the first male to be born on christy's
side
since at least the 1930s
don't tell me that isn't coincidence
well it's not but more on that later
we also see the family dog becoming a
worthy entity and it even starts barking
at it but shortly after he seems to be
suffering from a seizure
the father and daughter decide to take
him to the vet which leaves christian
hunter alone in the house
no guard dog no maid just her and the
baby
during the night she checks in on hunter
but gets dragged into the basement where
she gets bitten just like what would
happen to katie in the following weeks
from here on she acts very unusual
becoming withdrawn and odd
both the father and daughter clearly
notice this but they don't really know
who to talk to
out of desperation they call back their
superstitious maid for advice
she tells them what to do and even
though we never get to hear her
exact words we do hear ali say
we can't do that to her look there is no
other way
hey martine said it had to be a blood
relative the possessed christie
tries to fight back against whatever
they're doing but they manage to
complete the ritual
unharmed after which we see the father
burn a childhood photo of katie
the very same photo that we saw in the
attic in the first movie
this heavily insinuates that the evil
entity has been offered to use katie as
a vessel instead of christy
after the burning of the picture
christie is back to normal and
completely fine
as if nothing even happened later when
katie comes over to visit she tells
christy about the weird things that have
recently begun happening to her
i must be losing my mind i just
i feel like there's stuff going on at
our house to the point where i actually
told mika about it and
i'm sure he thinks i'm crazy it's from
that moment that the first and second
movie
overlap and run parallel to each other
on the night of october 9th
one day after mika was killed and thrown
at the camera
katie comes back to her sister's house
she kills her sister and daniel and
proceeds to take hunter and walk away
so we see that whatever was terrorizing
katie and christy was never actually
after them
but instead wanted to get to the baby as
the credits roll we do have more pieces
to the puzzle we found out that one of
christie's ancestors had made some sort
of deal with a demon who is now coming
back
we also know that christy transferred
her demonic possession over to katie
which leads into the first film
but there are still unanswered questions
such as what happened in kadey's and
christie's childhood where all of this
began
and what does the possessed katie want
to do with hunter
so paranormal activity 3 is a drastic
improvement on the second movie
having some truly memorable and tense
moments and it's probably my favorite
out of all of them
julie it starts off at about the same
time as the second installment we see a
pregnant christie getting a visit from
katie
she brings over a box filled with old
vcr tapes that she got when their
grandmother died i didn't even know you
had this much stuff
somehow i ended up with it after grandma
lois died i haven't even gone through it
when the break-in from the second movie
occurs the box of tapes mysteriously
disappears
but we get to see what's on them and
that becomes the rest of the film
alright and there she is the mother of
the birthday girl the tapes take us all
the way back to 1988 almost 20 years
before the first one
we follow dennis who is a professional
videographer and
julie who has two children called
christy and katie which are the same
girls that we saw earlier
i mean of course they are would be kind
of weird if they randomly have the same
names that would just be confusing
dennis is julie's boyfriend at the time
and he insists on recording
everything because he spends his entire
time working with cameras
early on we see a young christie playing
with an imaginary friend called toby
we got the young one twenty bikes under
the trampoline
soon after we're introduced to randy
who's a friend of dennis
we were playing outside what did we find
guys
tennis dennis
that's the worst prank ever don't don't
try that at home you could get really
hurt
one night we see dennis and julie smoke
in a fatty and we finally see what we've
been waiting 4
years to see they use the camera to make
a sex tape
however julie feels really uncomfortable
because she feels like there's someone
else watching them
someone besides me you and the millions
of people who watch the movie
ultimately they get interrupted by an
earthquake and as the building shakes
some
dust free from the ceiling the outline
of an invisible body is highlighted
showing that there really was someone
else there the whole time
in the replay dennis sees this so he and
randy come up with this idea of
recording the house to catch this thing
since they only have a few cameras and
not enough to cover the entire living
room
they place one of the cameras on a fan
and let it oscillate back and forth to
capture the entire floor
from here on you guys know the drone
nothing major happens the first night
but the strange activity is growing as
the nights pass
then on one of the tapes we see christy
talking to toby
later when dennis sees this he asks her
about him but christy only gives a very
vague description
so is he old like grandma or is he young
like you
his old like grandma
and what does he look like is he tall
is he fat thinking that the girls know
more than he initially thought
dennis goes to investigate the girls
room and discovers a couple of weird
symbols in a small closet space
he researches them and to his surprise
he learns that the symbols are connected
to a witch's coven that brainwashes
little girls into giving up their
firstborn son to an evil entity
you sound crazy do you hang on a second
all right me a second
explain they would have these ceremonies
and they would wait till the girls were
old enough to get pregnant and then they
would they would
have they would take their songs right
and then they would brainwash them and
they didn't remember a thing this shows
that toby is no harmless figment of
christy's imagination
but rather he's related to the demonic
force we've seen in the other movies
on one day christy becomes slightly ill
so dennis and julie take her to the
doctor which leaves randy over here
watching over katie
she wants to play bloody mary in the
bathroom with him and when they do
randy gets clawed by something
presumably toby as they try to leave
toby trashes the entire bedroom
eventually it stops and randy is so
shocked by this that he soon after tells
dennis that he will no longer be a part
of this when dennis tries to convince
him to stay
he only says that where are you going
i'm going home you get the [ __ ] books
this isn't
casper the [ __ ] friendly ghost you're
chasing man
i'm sorry okay and that's it we never
see him again
a few days later toby convinces christy
to ask her mom if they can visit their
grandmother lois
initially she declines but after
experiencing some scary things herself
she agrees that it's probably best to
leave for a while they arrive at the
grandmother's house and go to sleep soon
after
but in the middle of the night both
dennis and julie get woken up by some
strange noises
oh my god she's so loud
julie goes to check it out but she just
doesn't come back this leads dennis to
take the camera and look for the kids
and julie
as he's walking around the house he
discovers numerous signs all over the
wall
which turn out to be the same signs that
we saw earlier in the girls room
revealing that sweet grandma lois isn't
nearly as innocent as we thought
as dennis heads outside he walks into
another room
the grandma and some other people who
are all wearing dark robes slowly start
to walk after him
he flees back in the house and locks
himself inside as he's looking for the
kids he finds a dead julie levitating on
the staircase
he manages to get back up and stumble
around the house to search for the girls
he finds christy and continues to look
for her sister
eventually he finds katie but she
appears to be possessed and manages to
throw him onto the floor
lois enters and uses her supernatural
powers to kill dennis she then takes
both christy and katie by their hands
and the three of them peacefully walk
up the stairs so here's what we got so
far one of katy's ancestors made a deal
with a demon
in turn the daughters of that family
join a coven which brainwashes them into
giving up their firstborn son
this happens to be hunter and paranormal
activity too
the demon or toby then tries to get
hunter by possessing christy
but after the burning of the picture
he's forced out of christy and into katy
who then comes to get hunter
and leaves that's the first three movies
summarized i wanted to split this into
two videos because this part provides
the backstory of everything and the next
three movies build on this and get a
little crazier there we get the time
travel
stuff we got to see what the demons
actually look like and we finally find
out what the demon really wants
so i hope you liked it and that i get to
see you guys in the next video
you